# Deploy Tanzu for Kubernetes Operations

The following provide deployment instructions for the Tanzu for Kubernetes Operations reference designs. The deployments use example configuration values. Therefore, make sure to use configuration values that are appropriate for your environment.

- [Deploy Tanzu for Kubernetes Operations on AWS](tko-aws.md): Outlines the steps for deploying VMware Tanzu for Kubernetes operations on AWS. The deployment is based on the reference design provided in [VMware Tanzu for Kubernetes Operations on AWS Reference Design](../reference-designs/tko-on-aws.md).
- [Deploy Tanzu for Kubernetes Operations on Microsoft Azure](tko-on-azure.md): Outlines the steps for deploying VMware Tanzu for Kubernetes operations on Microsoft Azure. The deployment is based on the reference design provided in [[VMware Tanzu for Kubernetes Operations on Azure Reference Design](../reference-designs/tko-on-azure.md).
- [Deploy Tanzu for Kubernetes Operations using vSphere with Tanzu](tko-on-vsphere-with-tanzu.md): Outlines the steps for deploying VMware Tanzu for Kubernetes operations on vSphere with Tanzu in a vSphere environment backed by a Virtual Distributed Switch (VDS) and leveraging NSX Advanced Load Balancer (ALB) for L4/L7 load balancing & ingress. The deployment is based on the reference design provided in [[VMware Tanzu for Kubernetes Operations on Azure Reference Design](../reference-designs/tko-on-azure.md)
- [Configure Tanzu SaaS Components for Tanzu for Kubernetes Operations](tko-saas-services.md): Outlines the configuration needed to set VMware SaaS services for Tanzu for Kubernetes operations. VMware SaaS services provide additional Kubernetes lifecycle management, observability, and service mesh features. Use the instructions in this document in addition to the steps outlined in the Tanzu for Kubernetes operations deployment documentation.
